---
author: nate
date: '2011-05-14 21:33:30'
layout: post
slug: sick
status: publish
title: Sick
wordpress_id: '229'
categories:
- Misc
- Really Random
---

I'm sick today.

Well, that's a bit of a misnomer.  You see, I don't get "sick."  I get miserable.  Being sick for most people is being laid out in bed with a head full of snot, hacking and coughing and blowing through two boxes of kleenex.

Not me.

I get miserable.  What this usually means is that my nose needs to be emptied on an hourly basis and I have less of an appetite and I usually get tired faster.  Do you see anything in that list that would excuse me from work?  I certainly don't.  So I usually don't get to stay home and get taken care of like I used to when I was a kid.  Not that I'm complaining.  Too much.

Anyway, that's not why I wanted to post today.

Today, I went to Home Depot.  If you knew me at all, you would know this is a rarity.  I am much more likely to be found at an Apple store.  It wasn't a particularly comfortable experience.  My dad would be comfortable in Home Depot[^1].  He's done some level of remodeling in each home my parents have owned and he was the main force behind the recent addition to their current house.  So he's the kind of guy who would walk in and go directly to the right aisle, pay and be back out in five minutes instead of wandering around until someone asks if he's in the right store.  He's awesome.

I went to Home Depot for a very specific purpose.

I needed a putty knife and drop cloth to help repair holes in the drywall above our bed left there by the removal of a shelf.  It's the first step in getting the room ready to be painted.  I'm a bit nervous about this project as it's the biggest thing we've attempted since we bought our condo over four years ago, but I'm confident that we'll figure out how to do it.

That's not why I wanted to post today either.

I wanted to post today because posting is good for my writing muscles.  And I need to exercise them.  And just like the first run after not getting out for a while, it's not going to be my best work.  But at least I've got my shoes on again.

[^1]: Come to think of it, he'd probably be comfortable in an Apple store too.
